This collaborative text editor project simulates google docs; a random room ID is created when the user visits the home page, which can then be shared with other users (by sharing the URL), who in turn can add, edit or delete text within that room. All new inputs are sent to the server, which then immediatelly broadcasts the changes to every instance of the text editor that shares the same room ID, providing a real-time collaborative work space. The users also have the option to send any progress to their email.

The Quill.js text editor is used for this app, which is known to be vulnerable to Cross Site Scripting (XSS) attacks. To mitigate the risks, data sanitisation is implemented, in order to prevent malicious scripts reaching the server and database. This is especially important in this app, due to the server immediatelly sharing whatever is sent to it with other users.

While Socket.IO can effectively enable real-time collaboration by itself, the state of the editor's contents go out of sync when users join at a later time (i.e., not connected to the room since the beggining), or when they refresh the page. Consequently, mongoDB is utilised to provide a consistent and persistent state to the text editor's contents.

Some steps to improve performance are taken; instead of polling the database continuously, guard clauses first check whether the current text editor contents match the contents of the object fetched from the database on page load, hence preventing unnecessary updates.

One significant limitation of the useEffect hook was observed during this project; as Quill.js gives a new instance of its text editor with every render, useEffect was naturally considered at first, to ensure only one text editor is displayed at any point. In order to place the text editor instance on a DOM element, a reference with useRef was passed to a div.
However, on page load, useEffect would run before useRef's reference on the DOM element were evaluated, meaning the useRef reference inside useEffect would still be "undefined" at that point. This was resolved with the use of the useCallback hook, which is assigned to the reference that is placed on the DOM element.

Frameworks, libraries, and databases used in this project; Quill.js, Socket.io, react-router-dom, sanitize-html, uuid, underscore, auth0, emailjs/react, nodemon, chalk, mongoDB, Mongoose, Sass, Material-UI.
